CI, continuous integration.
So this is a DevOps software
development practice.
I mean, we're probably all familiar with
it, I just wanted to define it in case.
So it where developers merge code
together into a central place,
we run builds automatically and
the tests are run.
So these tests could be all
kinds of things, linters,
TypeScript, type checks,
automated tests for features.
We wanna make sure we aren't
breaking other people's stuff.
And this has become very commonplace.
We don't have to use third party services
anymore, even Circle CI or Travis.
I think it's happening directly on GitHub,
GitLab, Azure DevOps,
wherever your code repository is.
CI is just part of how we work most of
the time now, it's really easy to set up.
So with hosted CI,
at least there's on premise stuff, and
this goes deep into DevOps.
But in a nutshell,
we write code and tests.
There's an integration in our
source repository to run some
sort of checks, GitHub actions or
however you hook this up.
We enable CI builds for the project and
then when we push our code, bam,
it's gonna run all the tests.
You can run it when you submit a pull
request, you can run it when you're doing
a build pipeline, so
we do all of those things in my work.
And some platforms are easier than others,
like Azure DevOps, not my fave.
Jenkins, I tried setting up Jenkins a few
times, that one was also a bit difficult.
CircleCI and Travis were just so
much easier, I think they came later.
But some tools are easier.
I really miss GitHub, I have to be honest.
[LAUGH] It's amazing.
The pull request reviews are awesome,
Azure DevOps could use some love.
So I do have a screenshot of a pull
request with some checks on it, and
every repo is gonna have different tools.
These ones have some
GitHub Actions looks like.
This is Microsoft's Fluent UI
component library.
But for contributing to things,
it is so nice to see checks,
it just feels kind of comfy when you
can satisfy some of those checks.
It's caught me from adding some pain that
my co-workers would have to deal with.
I work in an agency, so we're like,
our merge strategy is the most
complex I've ever seen, it's wild.
So we have to really be on guard, so
that we're not breaking things because
of how our merge strategy works.
So CI checks are everything
in that environment.
So CI can really help if you have
some accessibility testing built-in,
you can fail a build if you want, or
at least have your coworkers
know that something has broken.
So we can kind of spread that testing and
awareness around when our team members
are involved and
you can track who broke the build.
I've seen some teams will have it
up on a monitor in their office,
they kind of make a team thing out of it.
I was lucky enough to have been in
Mountain View in the angular office when I
broke the build once, [LAUGH] and
they had it on their monitor,
it was kind of a badge of honor.
[LAUGH] But it is helpful for
accountability,
not only can you get blame on things,
but in the moment,
you can keep things from breaking,
which is really nice.
So should accessibility
issues fail a build or not?
It depends, it depends on what
the accessibility issues are.
If they're your feature tests that you
wrote for your own components, yeah,
those should probably fail a build.
If somebody changed an element,
so it's not focusable anymore, or
they deleted some code, or
just something broke that used to work.
If you have test coverage for it, and
it broke, that should fail a build.
If you have say, Cypress X or one of
the accessibility test APIs running,
you probably don't want
that to fail a build.
Maybe in your first environment.
But at least for us, we submit code, and
then it has to go to a staging
environment and then to UAT.
I mean,
it goes to like multiple steps of the way.
So we don't really want things that are
page level accessibility issues that may
not even be in scope for
what we just shipped,
cropping up in a later environment.
We really need those to
get handled earlier.
So we wanna test it,
we might wanna be more choosy and
selective about when we run those.
So linters and CI builds,
I've seen type checks fail builds, and
whether accessibility link rules should
fail builds, that's another question.
So it's worth experimenting,
configuring your rules,
add something that has just
the right amount of friction and
doesn't make everyone want it to
turn it off, [LAUGH] like snapshots.
>> So I guess going back to CI,
are there any types of tests
that commonly flake out?
Because I know at least my company,
that's something we're trying to
wrangle a little bit right now.
And I wasn't sure if there were just
some tests that sometimes they work,
sometimes they don't, or
if they're generally reliable, and
as long as you have the test itself set up
properly, it'll pass when it should be.
>> Yes, flaky tests,
those are challenging.
I have seen flaky tests where
the test runs too quickly,
and it hasn't had enough time to wait for
things.
Yeah, sometimes we need
to use test Apis to wait,
or we need to make our test
more asynchronous or something.
So I think the tooling's gotten
a little bit better for that.
For things in accessibility,
focus management can actually be
the cause of flaky tests sometimes.
Because you're trying to send
focus to something, and well, for
one in a CI environment depending
on what tool you're running,
it might be using virtual dom in memory.
So, there might be some weirdness there.
But then the timing of things,
when things are flaky,
that means that they pass sometimes and
fail others.
If it passes locally, but
always fails in CI or
it only fails in CI part of the time,
that's double flaky.
Then you kind of have to think about,
well, what's happening there?
It's something about the way
that that test is being run,
something about the way the UI is set up.
Do I need to just wait for things more,
or use use effect more, or something
that's gonna put some guard rails around
when that focus event will happen.
I've had to do stuff as detailed
as putting event listeners on
CSS transitions to make
sure stuff is ready.
So kinda dig into why it's failing and
that might help narrow it down.
Flaky tests are some of
the hardest things though,
it's like you just wanna punt on it and
not think about it.
[LAUGH] question?
>> Flaky tests, in my opinion,
mostly happen in end-to-end tests
>> Yeah,
there's more going on,
there's more variables, things are slower.
So definitely the accessibility test
APIs that we're gonna talk about now,
they're slower.
So things like Axe-Core,
particularly the algorithm for
color contrast, it's doing a lot.
It's looking at the get-computed
style of elements,
which is very expensive as a check.
And if you have to call it multiple times,
that's even more
computationally expensive.
And so for running things like axe,
we probably only wanna run it at
a page level, we're not gonna want to
invoke it in every unit test or
that's gonna be a very slow test suite.
You can scope axe to only look at
certain elements using the API,
but it's still a big API to call
in a unit test environment.
So my first bit of advice for using
Axe-Core is to probably use it in Cypress.
There's a bunch of different flavors
though, and if you find it works in
anywhere in your test suite
without being too slow, go for it.
But end-to-end tests can be kind of flaky.
So yeah, at least they have the wait for
API in Cypress and in testing library.
I think I always have to remember is that
is that in Jest or in testing library?
Sometimes it's hard to tell.
So let's talk about using an accessibility
testing API like Axe-Core.
So we've seen Axe-Core in
the browser extensions.
Axe-Core is a JavaScript library
that you can call anywhere,
really, but it's great for
page-level accessibility tests.
So when we run it in the Chrome
extension or Firefox extension,
we hear about things like color contrast,
and the document language, and
all of the markup on the page.
So in an automated environment,
we can mimic that by having a computer
run it instead of us, manually
pushing that button in the browser,
we can run it with things like Cypress.
And it's pretty awesome.
So what's nice about these APIs is
that you don't have to write all
of those accessibility tests.
We're trying to get budget and support for
doing the things we know most about,
which are the features
that are in our apps.
Leadership probably doesn't wanna fund us
to write accessibility testing rules at
companies when that's not what we do.
So you can benefit from
a lot of these rules by
pulling in an accessibility testing API.
And the accessibility companies like
WebAiM and DQ, and there are many others,
but they are dealing with accessibility
compliance in the real world every day and
they bake that knowledge
into these libraries.
So if ARIA isn't working right
somewhere or there's some detail,
this folds into a concept of what's
called accessibility supported.
And so that's a big thing that
these libraries are looking at,
it's not just is it
theoretically possible?
They look at what's really working for
people, so that's pretty cool.
And they keep really close
track of WCAG and ARIA,
they're in the W3Cs conformance task,
accessibility conformance
testing rules group.
So there's a lot going on with these APIs.
So for Axe and automated tests,
there is an Axe-Core React library
you could check out, but
watch the performance of it.
Like I was saying,
I think it could be a bit heavy-handed.
There is just axe, if you have just
testing and it would be hard to get
Cypress or anything else, but
you're like, but we have that right now.
You could try out just axe,
it's maintained by a community
member as is Cypress Axe.
So I think there's even a fork of Cypress
Axe just because people were having
issues with it.
So some of these are more well
maintained than others, but
I haven't had issues with Cypress X,
so it's been pretty great.
So these APIs can help you with things
like HTML nesting and structuring issues,
label and name computation that
we really dug into earlier,
incorrect ARIA usage which
can be highly detailed.
If you grab one ARIA attribute,
did you happen to get all
of the other things that go
with it like an ARIA menu role?
They can really help with that,
because they can be like, you forgot the
required property that goes along with it.
So that's nice.
Color contrast, data table markup,
they can look at that programmatically.
And then some viewport and
zooming problems,
if you've disabled page zooming or
something, they can point that out.